The Project Gutenberg EBook of Captain Billy's Whiz Bang, Vol. 2, No. 20,
May, 1921, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Captain Billy's Whiz Bang, Vol. 2, No. 20, May, 1921
       America's Magazine of Wit, Humor and Filosophy

Author: Various

Editor: W. H. Fawcett

Release Date: April 25, 2018 [EBook #57047]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CAPTAIN BILLY'S WHIZ BANG, MAY 1921 ***




Produced by David Edwards and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)





Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang, Vol. II. No. 20, May, 1921





STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY
THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912.


Of Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang, published monthly at Robbinsdale,
Minnesota, for April 1, 1921.

State of Minnesota, County of Hennepin—ss.

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and County aforesaid,
personally appeared Harvey Fawcett, who, having been duly sworn according
to law, deposes and says that he is the business manager of Captain
Billy’s Whiz Bang, and that the following is, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and
if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication
for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August
24, 1912, embodied in Section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed
on the reverse of this form, to-wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing
editor, and business managers are: Publisher, W. H. Fawcett, Robbinsdale,
Minn.; editor, W. H. Fawcett, Robbinsdale, Minn.; managing editor, none;
business manager, Harvey Fawcett, Robbinsdale, Minn.

2. That the owners are: (Give names and addresses of individual owners,
or, if a corporation, give its name and the names and addresses of
stockholders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of the total amount of
stock.) W. H. Fawcett, Robbinsdale, Minn.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders
owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages,
or other securities are: (If there are none, so state.) None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners,
stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list
of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books
of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security
holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other
fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom
such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs
contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to
the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security
holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees,
hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide
owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person,
association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the
said stock, bonds, other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication
sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers
during the six months preceding the date shown above is: (This
information is required from daily publications only.)

                                                (Signed) HARVEY FAWCETT.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 11th day of March, 1921.

                                                        ROBERT P. KIRBY.
    [SEAL.]                     (My commission expires December 1, 1927.)




                            _Captain Billy’s
                               Whiz Bang_

                             [Illustration]

                         _America’s Magazine of
                             Wit, Humor and
                               Filosophy_

                     May, 1921      Vol. II. No. 20

                            Published Monthly
                    W. H. Fawcett, Rural Route No. 2
                        at Robbinsdale, Minnesota

     Entered as second-class matter May 1, 1920, at the post-office
                  at Robbinsdale, Minnesota, under the
                          Act of March 3, 1879.

                   Price 25 cents      $2.50 per year

        Contents of this magazine are copyrighted. Republication
             of any part permitted when properly credited to
                        Capt. Billy’s Whiz Bang.

           “We have room for but one soul loyalty and that is
          loyalty to the American People.”—Theodore Roosevelt.

                             Copyright 1921
                            By W. H. Fawcett

                             [Illustration]

              Edited by a Spanish and World War Veteran and
         dedicated to the fighting forces of the United States.




_Drippings From the Fawcett_


Out on Rural Route No. 2 we haven’t much class, as the saying goes, but
we have a lot of fun. We haven’t any bright lights, although the folks
about the country have thought so liberally of my little bundle of bunk
lately that I have been able to put in a small farm lighting plant in the
Whiz Bang house, barn and yard.

Not many Minnesota farmers can afford, in these low-wheat-price days,
such a luxury as an electric lighting plant, and so the one put in at the
Whiz Bang farm created quite an interest.

Gus, our hired man, thought it would be a good idea to have a sort of
celebration over the new electric lights. The idea met with instant
approval from Mrs. Bill and the kids. The next question was how to
celebrate the great event. Gus suggested a “snoose” party, but as not
all of my neighbors chew the Copenhagen breakfast food, his suggestion
received a cool reception, particularly from Mrs. Bill, who dislikes the
habit. It was left to my twelve-year-old daughter to solve the problem,
later in the day, when I discovered her in the loft of the old red barn
practicing toe dancing. This suggested to my mind a dancing party.

And so we gave the party. I wired the hay loft with electric lights and
dumped a pail full of oatmeal on the floor to make it slippery. We
picked Gus as the dance master, and here was his predominating action for
the evening:

    On a balmy night, when the weather’s clear,
    The boys and girls from far and near;
    We’ll congregate on the Whiz Bang farm,
    To cut some capers in the old red barn.

    We have a drum and a jew’s harp, too,
    Jim Moss plays on the tin bazoo;
    And a fiddler over from Sugar Creek,—
    Pick ’em up Silas and lay ’em down deep.

    Oh, we’ll dance all night to the latest tune,
    The Maiden’s Prayer or the old Hip Croon;
    We’ll walk the dog and ball the jack,
    And promenade around the old hay stack.

    The horses nicker and the roosters crow,
    Balance all and away you go;
    Dance that one step nice and clean,
    Possum trot and the lima bean.

    Now swing around like the old barn door,
    If the music stops, then holler “more.”
    Oh, pinch your gal on her rosy cheek,—
    Pick ’em up Silas and lay ’em down deep.

    Pick ’em up Silas and lay ’em down deep,
    Ain’t no game of hide and seek,
    Pick them knot holes from the floor,
    Change your partners, forward four;
    Hear the music to your feet,
    Pick ’em up Silas and lay ’em down deep.

The only fault we had to find with Gus’ musical attainments was that he
didn’t say anything about the dingbusted lighting plant going on the
blink during the dance. Something went wrong and the lights went out, and
when we came to again, I was horrified. Mrs. Bill says we can’t give any
more dances; not if those girls from Sugar Creek are allowed to attend.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here it is Spring, the poets are with us and the Thursday musicales can
now render “The Coming of Spring” by a scanty Aphrodite girlie in true
aesthetic rhythm, but I hearken naught to their artificial atmosphere. I
crave Mother Nature in all its ruggedness.

Hence I have fared to my log cabin settlement on the shores of Big
Pelican lake in northern Minnesota, accompanied by Mrs. Bill, the
five kids, my dog Shep, our new perfumed Persian pussy and, last but
not least, the good, old pedigreed bull, Pedro. Fred La Page, my
French-Canadian friend and the lord and master of the Pequot settlement,
threw in a couple of cows in the deal wherein I acquired title to the
cabins and the shore property and advised me to bring the pedigreed bull
along to keep the cowlets company. And so here we are at Pequot, and as I
said before, it is Spring and the birdies are singing in the treelets.

We’ve hardly been here a week when into our wild and wooded midst enters,
like an angel from Heaven, a pretty young miss, a graduate of Minneapolis
aristocracy and unlearned in the ways of we simple country folk. She
had never seen a real pumpkin sprout in the garden of nature and her
knowledge of the products of the soil was confined to what she had read
in some seminary institution.

The first evening, Gus, our hired man, picked some of Brother La Page’s
wild asparagus. We did it up in butter, as was my wife’s custom, and
served it in big helpings on the old pine table.

Miss B?, our guest and new acquaintance, was guided by etiquette and
started to eat her asparagus with a knife and fork, but Gus changed
her mind. Now Gus is a careless sort of fellow. When he surrounds a
plate of grub he is like time and tide. He waits for no man. He simply
surrounds his lips, arms, fingers and what-not in mad haste to consume
everything on the table. He is oblivious to anything or anyone else. So
Gus grabbed the butt end of a big stock of asparagus and sipped the tip
of the vegetable in much the same fashion as a steam suction hose cleaned
the streets of Paris in our soldier days. But Miss B? was game. In
manner demure, she nervously grasped a luscious piece within her slender
fingers. Blushingly, she placed the tender morsel between her pearly
teeth. She was a game little girlie, despite her embarrassment. The warm
butter slobbered over her but, to her credit, may it be said, she went
through the ordeal much like a seasoned veteran.

At this writing, I am glad to say, our angel is rapidly becoming
accustomed to backwood etiquette and she now can eat away at any size
asparagus just as well—well, almost as efficiently as Gus. I said almost.
It would be impossible, I believe, to equal his record.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last, thank God, Mrs. Bill admits I have one good quality—that of
being tender-hearted. I overheard her telling Gus that I was so tender
of heart that I wouldn’t kill a poor, defenseless fly, or even beat a
carpet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pedro, famous pedigreed bull of the Whiz Bang farm, has quite a
reputation as a county fair prize winner. Gus, the hired man, decided
he’d make a few extra dollars one week while I was “tooting it up” in
Minneapolis, so he started charging admission to the many who came to
view the noble animal.

A visitor approached Gus the first day of admission charges and inquired
as to the cost for himself, wife and nine children, for viewing the bull.

“Not a cent,” promptly replied our faithful man. “Come right in; I want
Pedro to see you.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The girls of Texas, we judge from correspondents, are madly in love with
the confection known as the lollypop or all-day sucker. We’ve received
several complaints from love-lorn swains requesting that we ask the Texas
girls to protect their tresses from the sticky lollypops.

       *       *       *       *       *

So many Whiz Bang readers have requested that we send them the automobile
seat left on our farm by a daring couple while they hiked to Robbinsdale,
to report the theft of their motor car, that we have decided to retain
it. An auto seat, you know, is valueless without the car.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gus is a progressive hired man. He progresses from penny ante to nickel
heart games to two-bit moonshine. It’s a good thing he’s not very strong
for the ladies. He has plenty of bad habits now.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gus is a great fellow to play pranks. Whenever he wants to chop wood
around the smokehouse, he goes to the farm house, opens the back door and
rings the dinner bell. All the flies swarm inside and take their places
in the dining room. Then Gus closes the doors behind the flies and goes
to the wood-pile to work undisturbed. You have to hand it to Gus for
originality.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spooky Stuff

At a seance the other evening the spiritualists were telling of their
experiences with residents of other worlds. One man told of conversing
with a ghost, another had dined with one. A woman declared she had shaken
hands with a departed friend, and others followed suit until it seemed
they had exhausted the list of possible activities with spirits.

“We have heard the testimonials of the circle,” said the medium, “but so
far nobody has told of being in love with a ghost. Is there anyone here
who has had that interesting experience? Has anyone ever loved a ghost?”

“I have, lady,” said an Irishman in the rear of the room.

“Step right up in front, I am sure everybody will be interested in your
experience,” said the medium. “In all my life I’ve never heard of an
instance of a human loving a ghost.”

“Hell!” sputtered the Irishman, “I thought you said a goat!”




_Sissified Flirts_

    _Our Hollywood and Universal City writer is very indignant this
    month. It appears he attended a movie ball in Los Angeles and
    was pestered by divan dearies, and so he shoots us a red-hot
    opinion of these sissies, together with some spicy gossip of
    the dressing rooms._

By RICHMOND


The male sissified flirt is becoming more and more a social pest. One
is liable to bump into this queer creature at any social function,
regardless of its exclusiveness.

Let us dwell for a moment upon the great masque ball recently held under
auspices of theatrical people at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles.
It is the latest creation in behalf of the wealthy tourist who visits
Southern California.

In this huge pile, which somewhat resembles a great depot, in depth of
its long corridors and maze of shops and stands, a scene of merriment
occurred that has not been rivalled in the history of winter tropics.

The affair was stopped, it is understood, by order of the hotel
management, when word freely was passed that by some hook or crook booze
was to be had on an upper floor. Just how booze might get into a great
hotel and gradually cause the dance to become rather flushed may have
been a problem that puzzled and nettled those responsible for the good
name of the house so far as Uncle Sam is concerned. At any event the
fiddlers left and the impression went about that the hotel people weren’t
going to stand for the party getting rough.

Into the main dining-room, before the evening was well started, two of
our leading male comedians strode, both with an ill-concealed bottle
protruding from the usual pocket. One of these comedians is a heavy
gentleman and a jolly one. The other is gaining fame as a comedian
because he never is known to smile.

Just what was in the bottles cannot be proved, but the incident caused
some words of criticism from other members of the movie colony, who
figured the boys were “putting it on” a little too strong in view of
the assemblage present, ever ready to declare that the “movies” are
impossible.

But these two cheerful individuals, at the worst, were only mistaken if
they really intended to show off or be funny or daring. Many a person
present would have been glad to join them, in consideration of their hip
pocket protrusion. Yet the occasion, the time, the place, and so on, made
it seem a bit garish.

But what about the rouge-soaked males in feminine attire, and displaying
toe to hip extremes, garbed in lace tights, whose every movement, look
and word indicated absence of the masculine instinct as they pranked and
tripped about the ballroom floor, mingling with dainty women and stalwart
males who moved uneasily away as the queer folk swung simpering and
smirking among them?

Take the two merry boys with the bottles in the main dining-room, a
little wild, perhaps, and making somewhat of a show—but, withal, regular
men taking a lark as they found it—maybe somewhat “lit up,” but exuding
rough masculinity in their uncouth playfulness. To be censured?

One regular he-man, or a party of them, invaded under ordinary
circumstances by queer-acting customers, would make short shift of “sissy
simps” and abide by the consequences—there being small reason to fear
consequences. But a public gathering is different.

By the way, Mildred Harris (Charlie’s used-to-be) led the Grand March
with Earl Williams. It is remembered that Williams recently, after his
marriage, paid a certain lady a sum (reputed to be $40,000) as a result
of a friendship which existed prior to the picture star’s entrance into
matrimony.

They are getting to be very businesslike, these ladies. They give, but
demand payment at times. But if Earl Williams parted with $40,000, his
partner in the dance, fair Mildred, was rejoicing in a little sum of
$200,000 or so, which is the amount Charles is said to have settled upon
her when they parted at the ways.

Bookkeeping on the leaders of the Grand March, it would appear that Earl
and Mildred, between them, were $160,000 ahead of the matrimonial deal,
figuring Earl’s loss of $40,000 and Mildred’s winnings of two hundred
grand.

Mary and Doug did not mingle with the ballroom dancers to any extent.
They are largely home folks and only drop in on occasions at a party, and
then usually beat it in jigtime for the fireside.

One of our best-known young newspaper scribes had half the house betting
that he was dancing with Edna Purviance, garbed in Turkish emblems. But
when she doffed her mask it was not Edna at all, but a charming youngster
of the pictures but not well known to fame.

Since Edna has been resurrected in all her beauty for Chaplin’s new
picture, “The Kid,” the former friendship between her and Chaplin has
been rehashed where the gossip-mongers meet for Wednesday night meeting.

Another pleasing sight was the return of Lucille Carlisle, until recently
Larry Semon’s leading lady. Rumor hath it that Lucille and Larry waged a
young war about something, as children will. But the soaring young funny
man of filmdom and his fair partner were turtle doves who found no one to
dance with but themselves.

A false report went out that Bull Montana attended the ball costumed like
an ape. This is untrue, for two reasons. One is that Bull wasn’t present,
and the other that he needs no costume when imitations of a gorilla are
in order. Bull’s face has become his fortune and he is proud of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

A girl may not let you kiss her, but the chances are she appreciates your
wanting to.




_Whiz Bang Filosophy_


Prohibition is morality on a jag.

       *       *       *       *       *

A good woman is chaste—so is good whiskey.

       *       *       *       *       *

Virtue, although often lost, is seldom advertised for.

       *       *       *       *       *

After man came woman and she has been after him ever since.

       *       *       *       *       *

A woman who can love but once is pretty badly stuck on herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

It may be peculiar, but a horse can eat best without a bit in his mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Man is made of dust; along comes the water wagon of fate and his name is
mud.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before a man marries, he swears to love; after marriage, he loves to
swear.

       *       *       *       *       *

Human nature shows to better advantage at a dog fight than at a prayer
meeting.

       *       *       *       *       *

Love is blind. Perhaps that accounts for some of the bad shots he has
made.

       *       *       *       *       *

Blessed is the man that is born of little furniture, for it shall be
easier to move.

       *       *       *       *       *

Most women are both good and true; in fact, most of them are too good to
be true.

       *       *       *       *       *

You can never judge the length of a woman’s tongue by the size of her
mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Love has been called miserable happiness. Not so, it is what makes
happiness miserable.

       *       *       *       *       *

He is a mean father who has his whiskers shaved off because the baby
likes to pull them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some women kiss their pet dogs in preference to their husbands. Some men
are born lucky.

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl who wishes she had been born a boy will never make a good
wife—she will want to wear the pants.

       *       *       *       *       *

A pretty woman with brains usually sends some man to the devil. If she
hasn’t brains, she goes there herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some men promise to stop smoking after marriage without exacting a
similar promise from the girl.

       *       *       *       *       *

If Mother Eve had been as wise as some of her daughters, what a fool
she’d have made of that snake.

       *       *       *       *       *

A man will promise a woman or a baby anything to keep them quiet.
Sometimes he delivers the goods in the case of the baby.

       *       *       *       *       *

All of us believe in law and order, of course, but a surprisingly large
number of people like to see a policeman get whipped.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of course polygamy is dreadful, but an Oriental wife can come within four
or five guesses of knowing where her husband spends his evenings.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wise virgins of olden days kept their lamps trimmed and burning;
those of the present day keep the gas turned low, and they manage to trim
as many suckers as their predecessors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Blessed is the man that is born for woman. He hath a short life and
little joy. He springeth up in the morning like a huckleberry bush and is
crushed to earth at night by a mother-in-law.

       *       *       *       *       *

Life’s Hard Course

    _This bit of filosophy is as old as the hills, but like good
    liquor and fruits of human thought, it grows more rich and
    mellow with age. Its quaintness is its virtue, and so here it
    is again._

Man comes into this world without his consent, and leaves it against his
will. During his stay on earth his time is spent in one continual round
of contraries and misunderstandings.

In his infancy, he’s an angel; in his boyhood, he’s a devil, and in
his manhood, he is everything from a lizard up. In his duties, he’s a
damphool.

If he raises a family, he’s a chump. If he raises a check, he’s a crook.
If he is a poor man, he is a poor manager and has no sense. If he is
rich, he is dishonest but considered smart. If he is in politics he is a
grafter and a thief. If he is out of politics, you cannot place him as he
is an undesirable citizen. If he donates to foreign missions, he does it
for show; if he doesn’t, he is stingy and a tightwad.

When he comes into the world, they all want to kiss him; before he leaves
it, they all want to kick him.

If he dies young, there was a great future before him. If he lives to
a ripe, old age, he is only in the way, just living to save funeral
expenses. So Life is just one damn thing after another.

       *       *       *       *       *

Everything has gone down except paper and envelopes. They are stationery.




_Adventures of Sven_


Dere Uncle Billy: Since Ay writing you las time Ay bane having swell
time acting in moving pictures. Las week Ay working in Sex picture in
Hollywood Studyo and we got one big scene where leading man be banker
faller and git fresh with hired girl while him’s wife bane gone out to
week-end party. Ayskol be butler with short tail coat and gold buttons
made of brass. When somebody kome in Ayskol stand by door and take him’s
card on pie-plate. Director he say, “Sven, when banker git fresh you skol
yump in an’ poke him’s nose yust like real life with plenty pep.” Banker
git fresh alright an’ you bet Ay show Director Ay am dam gude actor. Ay
poke leading man so he don’t wake up till half past sax an’ dey don’t
finish scene till next week. Leading man he git sore on me an’ try to git
me fired but Ayskol told him if he enta shut up Ay poke him ’gain so he
keep still an’ Ay don’t lose may Yob.

Week behind las’ Ay playing in cave-man picture with whiskers glued on
may face so Ay look like Smith Bros. on cough drop box. They got real
elephant from Universal City an’ glue whiskers all over him too, so he
skol be a baskardon. We go out in woods with a lot of other animals an’
monkey ’round all day yumping in and out hole in hill some fallers dig
for cave.

Ay meet rich woman that say she skol star me yust so soon her husband go
to Seattle. She gat big lemonzine an’ diamonds an’ she shake her shimmy
when she walking. She bane gude skout all right, you bat my life, an’ she
say Ay gat fine fizzic. She like strong faller an’ she like me be strong
for her. Ay bat your life Ay gitting new suit from Foreman Clark an’ silk
shirt with blue stripe. She standing in gude with assistant Director an’
git me gude Yobs right long. Ay meet four more Swedes here in pictures
an’ they take me to place one night they call wild party an’ Ay drink
some coctaila made out of prune yuice and Skloan’s Liniment. When Ay got
more news Ay skol let you know right off. Moving picture game bane gude
bet for faller with plenty pep.

                                 Goodby,

                                                         SVENS PETERSON.

Post Chips: If you see may brother Olaf tole him Ay say bootleg business
bane pretty gude out here yust now an’ if he want to kom out Ay skol git
him in on ground floor.—S. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

What a Pity, Poor Kitty!

    There was a young man from the city,
    Who met what he thought was a kitty;
          He gave it a pat,
          Said, “Nice little cat!”
    And they buried his clothes out of pity.




_Venezuela’s Abominations_

    _As full of dynamite and fusel oil as ever, Reverend Morrill
    returns to Minnesota this month brimful of information on
    the South and Central American countries, which for the past
    three months he had been touring for the Whiz Bang, and here’s
    his first report. Incidentally, Reverend Morrill’s home in
    Minneapolis is broken into by burglars nearly every time he
    goes away on a Whiz Bang jaunt, and last fall he lost $3,000
    worth of choice red-eye. This last trip he left a note: “Dear
    Boys: You won’t find any booze or Liberty Bonds, but some
    good books, especially this Bible, which says, ‘Thou shalt
    not steal.’ God forgive you—I do. G. L. Morrill.” Whether or
    not the note was responsible is undetermined, but nothing was
    missing this time._

BY REV. “GOLIGHTLY” MORRILL

Pastor People’s Church, Minneapolis, Minn.


“Easy is the descent to hell”—except by way of Venezuela, at whose
ports of entry one suffers so many inconveniences in the form of
passport visés, custom fees, red-tape, delay and insolence, that if
the Devil wishes to sustain his reputation of a conductor of luxurious
pleasure-tours to the infernal regions, he should immediately get rid of
his disagreeable officials there. At La Guayra, custom authorities rob
the traveler of time, money and patience. These sun-burnt bandits would
steal the pennies from the eyes of their dead father, and body-snatch
their dead grandmother to sell her entrails for sausage-casings. The
visitor should be on his guard, too, lest the city’s dark-eyed daughters
of delight steal away his heart.

La Guayra señoritas, like the scenery, are wild, beautiful and romantic,
though there are many wizened witches, rheumatic, mustachioed and
flea-bitten, who make one sea-sick on land. The local enchantresses
give the stranger a good (bad) time—as well as a choice assortment of
undesirable souvenirs. It is a pestiferous port where the laudable
profession of prostitution is much practised. These moral lepers are much
more dangerous than the physical ones in the big asylum in the outskirts.
Gay girls throw kisses to the tenderfoot as he walks the streets—a most
sanitary and microbeless pastime.

Here I entered a girls’ school where the young misses were learning much
and not missing anything, for as a practical object-lesson in physiology
a naked little boy had strolled in from the street and was roaming about
the room. Some of the citizens are quite devout and show their gratitude
to God for his numerous blessings. I passed a saloon bearing the
inscription, “Gracios a Dios” (Thanks to God). Thus do the simple-minded
people obey the Scriptural command, “In everything give thanks.”

A few minutes’ train ride takes you to Maiquitia, where there is a
popular shrine and a more popular brewery. At the other end of the town
lies Macuto, where, if lucky, you may “clean up” yourself in a sea-bath,
or a pile of filthy lucre at the roulette table.

As our vessel steamed away from La Guayra, I thought what a magnificent
city it was—from the stern of a ship.

In Valencia I read a placard in a church admonishing the men not to wink
at the girls during service. The town had just been ravaged by a fever
called “Economica,” because it was said the people caught it in the
morning, languished in the afternoon and died at night.

At the Hotel Los Baños, Puerto Cabello, one goes in swimming _au
naturel_. Many modest maidens are only clad in a blush, making a _tableau
vivant_. Verily, as the guide-book saith, “The natural beauties of
the place are charming.” The harbor is deep; so is the despair of the
political prisoners who I saw working in rags. One poor fellow was
toiling away stark naked among the breakers and sharp rocks. It is
reported that the victims are beaten in the early morning, during the
call of the reveille, to cover up their cries.

Caracas, the capital of Venezuela, lies at a 3,000-foot “hell”evation
above the sea. It is the “Paris of South America” with its churches,
parks, public buildings, Pantheon, palace and promenades. The
nerve-center of the city is Plaza Bolivar, with an equestrian statue of
the hero who stood for liberty, and around which congregate people who
stand for everything. Certain “Carac”teristics make this a viva “city”
and lubri “city.” The climate is cool, but tempered by the “melting”
glance of the _bonita muchachas_, whose smiles would ripen peaches on a
wall.

The dapper younkers of Caracas pursue their studies at the University,
and the señoritas on the highway. Their “curriculum” also includes the
race-track, bull-ring, roulette-wheel (as omnipresent as the Victoria
coach-wheel), and art works, imported from Paris and Barcelona, as
vile and vivid as the paintings of Parrhasius. Even picture portraits
of Beethoven and Wagner are made by grouping together nude portions of
female figures.

Lottery-tickets are not the only things sold in town. Mothers come
to the Plaza with their daughters for sale. Wantons from the suburb
lupanars solicit under shadows of the trees, and their “Hist! hist!” is
as familiar as the sibilant call of the _filles publiques_ in Paris, who
figure so frequently in the tales of De Kock, Sue and Maupassant.

At “Madame Gaby’s” mansion of shame I found a girl scarcely 12 years old.
How shocking! But one expects to be shocked in a city that is subject to
earthquakes. Not only pedestrians, but pederasts, i. e., “maricos” or
“fairies,” haunt the streets and parks of Caracas. Powdered and painted,
they promenade with mincing gait and ogling glance, marching to the music
of the band and making “overtures” to the bystanders. The police know of
this disgusting depravity, and of the hordel resorts “for men only,” but
wink at it. This is as rank and rotten as anything I ever saw in Algiers,
or the Cairo “fish-market,” where men were dressed as women.

In old Egypt the Temples of Isis were centers of disgusting filth.
In ancient Greece, even among her greatest orators and philosophers,
“Socratic love” was proverbial and portrayed on the stage in the plays of
Aristophanes, although the Athenians officially punished it with death.
Livy, in his History of Rome, castigates this heresy of love. The Ganymed
pervert, Geiton, is the hero of Petronius’ sinister novel, “Satyricon.”
Martial’s epigrams and Juvenal’s satires flay this moral decadence. Out
from Naples I visited the island of Capri, where the Roman goat Emperor,
Tiberius, hired companies of catamites for his entertainment. Domitan
forbade the practice while Christianity did much to suppress it. The
student of history knows the infamous lives of Russian rulers and of
Henry III, of France, in the seventeenth century. St. Paul scored the
Romans for this sin—what an epistle could he indite against the Caracas
“maricos” who amuse, instead of disgust, the Caraquenians, who seem to
believe with Baudelaire that “_La Débauche et la Mort sont deux amiables
filles_” (Debauch and Death are two amiable girls).

The worst spot in Venezuela is the despot dictator, President Gomez. His
authority is absolute, with the accent on the “loot.” He takes what he
wants; a man’s personal property, wife or daughter. Dark stories make
him a modern Bluebeard. He is a moral and physical leper. Rumor says
that he sacrifices children and drinks their blood to cure his maladies.
Gomez is the government; the legislative, executive and judicial branches
consisting of the cockpit, race-track and palace harem. He has panderers
who scour the country to procure beautiful women for him. His personal
and public character is so putrid, that many of the inhabitants would
like to elect him president of a Guano island, with a salary in Guano. In
the land of Bolivar, the Liberator, Gomez muzzles the press, suppresses
free speech, maintains an army of spies, and has imprisoned some of the
best and brainiest men of Venezuela in horrible dungeons for the crime of
loving liberty. The following would seem to be his daily prayer:

    “My Father which art in Hell, powerful be thy name.

    Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in Venezuela as it is in
    Hell.

    Give me my daily bread, booze, and beef, whether everybody else
    starves or not.

    And forgive me my debts, but not as I forgive my debtors.

    And tempt me not into revolutions with my neighbors, and
    deliver me from the evil of any defeat; for thine and mine is
    the kingdom, and the power, and glory, forever. Amen.”

Coffee, cacao, cane, cattle, corn and illegitimate children are the
principal products of the country. At one time the official census for
three years in Caracas gave legitimate births as 3,848, and illegitimate
as 3,753. The ratio is even worse in the country districts. A Venezuela
bachelor who hasn’t a half-dozen mistresses, has lost caste and is
looked down on; a married man is expected to run two or three home
establishments. Love is free, but drugs are costly. A friend of mine in
the interior had a dear motherly lady come to him and offer her three
daughters for five dollars a week.

’Tis said Alexander the Great wanted to destroy the antique town of
Lamsachus because of its Priapus worship and obscene rites. Caracas was
overturned by an earthquake in 1812, when 12,000 people perished. If that
was a visitation of God’s wrath on account of its wickedness, another
punishment is due, for it is in the class of the “Cities of the Plain”—

    _“Cities of hell, with foul desires demented,_
    _And monstrous pleasures, hour by hour invented.”_

       *       *       *       *       *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 